.TH DTA_GETMSG 3

.ds )H Linkage Company
.ds ]W Release 0.2.0: August 2000

.SH NAME
DTA_GETMSG() - Get message from a queue.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "dta.h"

int DTA_GETMSG(DTAHQUEUE *hqueue,char *message,long *msglen,long *priority,int mode);

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
hqueue       -
Handle of queue.
.TP
message      -
Point to message data.
.TP
msglen       -
Length of message data.
.TP
priority     -
Priority of message.
.TP
mode         -
Mode of GETMSG.
.RS 5
.TP 25
DTAGMO_READBYORDER
Read message sort by time.
.TP
DTAGMO_READBYPRIORITY
Read message sort by priority.
.TP
DTAGMO_SKIPWHILEREAD
Move cursor to the next message after read.
.TP
DTAGMO_DELETEAFTERREAD
Delete message after read.
.TP
DTAGMO_RESETCURSOR
Reset cursor to the first message.
.TP
DTAGMO_JUSTINQUIRE
Get the length and priority of message but message data.

.SH DESCRIPTION
DTA_GETMSG() put message into a queue openned by DTA_OPENQ().
To compile application, the library libdta.a should be linked.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP 15
zero         -
Successful completion.
.TP
nonzero      -
Failure. Described in ERRORS.

.SH ERRORS
.TP 30
.ER DTARC_FILESEEK_ERROR
fseek() failed.
.TP
.ER DTARC_FILEREAD_ERROR
fread() failed.
.TP
.ER DTARC_QUEUE_EMPTY
There is no messages in the queue.
.TP
.ER DTARC_MEMORYALLOC_ERROR
Memory alloc failed.
.TP
.ER DTARC_QUEUE_END
Cursor reach the end of queue.
.TP
.ER DTARC_INTERNAL_ERROR
Internal call failed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 10
DTAHQUEUE hqueue;

char message[200];

long msglen;

long priority;

DTA_OPENQ(&hqueue,"myqueue1");

DTA_GETMSG(&hqueue,message,&msglen,&priority, DTAGMO_READBYPRIORITY);

printf("message: %s\\nlength: %ld\\npriority: %ld\\n", message,msglen,priority);

DTA_CLOSEQ(hqueue);

.SH SEE ALS3
DTA_PUTMSG(3)



